[MUSIC]
>> Douglas: When you say we do
some object-oriented programming?
Yeah, all right.
Yeah.
So we're gonna do something
with an object now.
We're gonna write a counter function that
returns an object containing two functions
that implement an up down counter,
hiding the counter.
So we'll call the counter factory and
pass in an initial value,
and it will return an object containing
an up method and a down method, and
when we call up, it will add
one to the value and return it.
When we call down,
it will subtract one from the value and
return it.
>> Douglas: And
I'll give you a hint, no global variables.
No this, none of that crap.
>> Speaker 2: We don't need any of that.
>> Speaker 3: Darn it.
>> Speaker 2: I always use global
variables everywhere.
It's what Ben taught me to do.
>> Speaker 3: I did not teach you to do
that.
>> Speaker 2: What could go- Ben always
says more globals.
>> Speaker 3: It's exactly the opposite of
that.
>> Speaker 2: More
globals.
>> Douglas: So here is counter,
it takes a value, it returns
an object containing two functions.
The first one, the up function,
adds one to the value and returns it.
The other one, the down function,
subtracts one from the value and
returns it.
So who got something that works?
Brilliant.
If you didn't get it, write it down,
cuz you'll want to refer
to this pattern later.
So this is very similar to what we
talked about yesterday, where we've got
two functions inside of a closure
which are both sharing common data.
This is a very simple example of that, but
basically, all object constructors
are gonna follow this pattern.
Any questions about this?
Okay, want to do another one?
So this next one, I promise,
is going to sound much worse
than it actually is, okay?
So, make a revocable function
that takes a binary function and
returns an object containing an invoke
function that can invoke the binary
function and a revoke function
that disables the invoke function.
Okay, so let me explain what's
actually going on here.
This is something that might have some
security properties, and that we might
have some guest code that we allow into
our system, and we want it to be able to
run as long as we want it to, but at any
point, we want to be able to cut it off.
And we don't want to have to rewrite
our existing APIs in order to
accommodate that.
So this is a variation on the limit
function that we wrote earlier.
In fact, you might want to refer to
your implementation of limit when you're
doing this one.
Except in this one, instead of keeping
a count about how many times you get to do
it, we will have a separate
function called revoke, which will,
when we call it,
cause the thing to stop working.
Okay, so we'll call our revocable factory,
we'll pass in any existing function, in
this case, the add function, and it will
return an object containing two functions.
One of them will be the invoke function,
which is the revocable add function.
And we can give that function
to the third party, but
we will hold on to the revoke function for
ourselves.
So the revocable add function
will work just like add until
we call the revoke function.
At that point,
all it does is return undefined.
Everybody clear?
>> Speaker 2: So
it's basically, what we really need,
the dot dot dot arguments and
then [INAUDIBLE].
>> Douglas: Yeah, we want this to work for
all functions, right?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, and
that only works for.
>> Douglas: For binary.
And actually, anything that works for
binary, probably works for unary,
because we're just gonna pass
undefined as the second argument,
then it gets ignored.
>> Speaker 2: So
[INAUDIBLE] could just plan ahead.
>> Douglas: Yeah, if you knew we never
used more than ten routers, you could
do that, but who wants to do that?
Yeah, it's awful.
>> Speaker 3: But
you could call, if inside,
you could always just call our
[INAUDIBLE] you can pass that wherever?
>> Douglas: You
can.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Douglas: So you can do that today,
it's just inexcusably ugly, and I don't
want to waste your time with it, so
we're not gonna do that.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE] Argument zero,
argument one, argument two, you can't
just pass in the arguments object.
>> Douglas: Actually, you can't, yeah,
which is kind of a problem.
>> Speaker 2: It didn't work for
me that way.
That was my go to,
to try that [INAUDIBLE] Good.
>> Douglas: You probably
did something wrong, which is great.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Douglas: Keep doing
that.
>> Speaker 3: It's
arguments?
>> Douglas: Arguments.
>> Speaker 3: So if you get arguments in
a function, and you call another function
inside of that, passing arguments,
you're passing an array to that function,
you're not passing
each of the arguments in that array.
>> Douglas: Right.
>> Speaker 3: That's why it doesn't work.
>> Douglas: But you could then use apply
to spread it out.
>> Speaker 3: In ES6 or?
>> Douglas: In ES3.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Douglas: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Array.apply [INAUDIBLE].
I'm sorry, [INAUDIBLE] arguments.
>> Douglas: No, unfortunately,
it's Function.apply.
So, we're not doing that.
It's too awful.
>> Speaker 3: That's right,
you showed us yesterday.
And you said it was ugly, so I ignored it.
>> Douglas: Yeah,
it was good that you ignored it.
Okay, we ready for revocable?
So here's revocable.
It takes a binary function and returns
an object containing an invoke method and
a revoke method.
The invoke method looks to
see if binary is undefined.
If it isn't, then it will call it,
passing the first and second argument.
Otherwise, it doesn't do anything and
returns undefined.
Revoke function sets binary to undefined,
thereby disabling the invoke function.
So who's got something that works?
Very good.
Anybody do something different?
Something notable?
>> Speaker 3: I put a variable okay which
I set to false, but it's the same thing.
>> Douglas: That is okay,
yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Thanks.
So, I open this up, so I create.
We made this object, which is in the,
and I look in the console at my object,
and I want to introspect it.
So I expand it.
Where's binary in there?
It's obvious, it's not exposed
publicly as a part of this object,
but it knows about it.
>> Douglas: Right,
binary is hidden in the function
scope of the revocable function, and
is available only through its closure.
And the only functions in the universe who
have access to that closure are invoke and
revoke.
So that's why this is something that
we can build secure systems out of.
You know,
if we were to take your okay flag and
put it in the object itself, then
the attacker could go to the object and
turn it the other way.
>> Speaker 3: Right.
>> Douglas: So that wouldn't accomplish
what we want to do here.
>> Speaker 3: So
we could obviously look at the source,
but you'd obviously, I mean, it's.
>> Douglas: Right, so
we assume that the attacker
can always look at the source.
But they can look at this source and
it doesn't help them, right,
unless they were there at the creation
of the object, they can't get to it.
They can't get to binary.
>> Speaker 2: So
revoke is irrevocable in this case.
>> Douglas: That's right,
this is a one-way trip.
Now, we could design this
to work a different way.
Using his okay variable as an on-off
switch, we could provide a second
function or maybe an argument to
revoke which could reverse it.
But generally, I prefer systems where once
we cut them off, it's off, and we don't
have to worry about something turning
it back on again in an unexpected way.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 4: Since you're not explicitly
returning undefined in the invoke?
>> Douglas: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 4: Is this a case where you
said, you flip flop on whether
you should return undefined or
not?
>> Douglas: That's right.
I mean, I like, the idea of being
explicit, and I also like not
doing anything I don't have to do.
>> [LAUGH].
>> Speaker 4: Kind of at odds with each
other.
>> Douglas: Yeah, exactly.
There's a real conflict there.
But most of the time,
doing the right thing and
doing the right thing
are obviously the same thing.
This is one of the cases where it isn't so
much.